---
title: Conecpts or what do you require?
published: true
---

Starting my regular blogging habit I do not want you to be bored out so I start with something that is new in C++20.
C++20 is another big step forward to make templates even better. Or some would say a step into the so called meta-programming. But do not be scared by the _meta_ it is not that complicated as you might have heard. For sure it can get complicated, but that is also true for non meta code.

I will provide you some examples where concepts might be useful and a short reminder what templates are, just in case.

## Short reminder: templates

Just to make sure we are all on the same page, the basic thing we use templates for is as a cookie cutter. You do not buy a cookie cutter per dough and you do not want to repeat code.

```cpp
template <typename T>
T add(T a, T b){
  return a + b;
}
```

This example is simple enough to show you what we can do with it. We have a **function template** `add` that takes two arguments of the same type, and applies the `+` operator and return the value. 

So how to use it?

```cpp
void main(){
  add(1, 3);
  add(3.5F, 9.2F);
}
```

Simple isn't it?

## So why bother with concepts?

One of the answers you might get from people which crawled through other peoples compiler error messages a lot might be: To get better error messages. This is true. You can try it yourself. Just pass a custom type to the `add` function (where the custom class does not implement the `operator+`). If you have never seen such error messages before you might be thrilled to get one :). Once more this example is so simple and easy, also the error message you get is understandable.

Concepts are a good way to specify the template arguments your template accepts in a readable way and with better error messages.

## How to do it?

It is not too hard. Besides this example there are a lot of predefined concepts you can use already available in the standard library.

Let me show a concept for the add function above:

```cpp
template<typename T>
concept CompareableAddable = requires (T a, T b){
  a + b == b + a
}
```

So what we require now is that the type passed has two things: an `operator+` and an `operator==`. 
**Note:** Be aware that this does not mean, that it must have the same result. It just means the operation performed must be valid.

You can play around here: [https://godbolt.org/z/3sooTaoTr](https://godbolt.org/z/3sooTaoTr)


